Hello and welcome back to the course on machine learning.
Today we're talking about the polynomial regression.
So let's get straight into it.
We already know a couple of types of regressions we know the simple thing or aggression which we can
see over here.
There have also discussed the multiple linear regression which is written out over here.
And finally we've got the polynomial linear regression which is recent out here.
So notice how it's very similar to the multiple linear regression but at the same time instead of the
different variables like x 2 x 3 x 4 and so on X and we have the same variable x 1 but it is in a different
power.
So instead of X to have x 1 squared instead of x 3 we would have x 1 cube.
And so instead of X and we would have x 1 to power.
And so basically we're using one variable but we're using the different powers of that bear.
So let's have a look at when you'd use a polynomial regression when it would come in handy.
Let's say you've got a observation a set of directions which are abs then the line that fits this data
is always simple in your aggression.
You can see it filters fitted quite well.
But let's for a change say that the data set looked something like this.
So if we try to use a simple linear regression here where is expressed like that you'll see that it
doesn't fit quite well so in the middle you've got data underneath and then as you go further the data
will be above the line.
So how can we correct that.
Well we can try to correct that by using a polynomial or regression Let's have a look.
So instead of the linear regression we're going to conductive Pono regression and that's in this case
fits perfectly.
And what is the formula.
Well that is a formula for this particular case y equals Bizarros and that's a constant Buzby 1 x1.
So that's a simple English but but then we're adding the beat to X1 squared and the BE to X on squared
gives that parabolic effect or that the curve becomes parabolic and therefore it will fit the data better
.
As you can see polynomial regression is a bit different to symbole in your regression.
And at the same time it has its own use cases so it's all comes on a case by case basis.
You have a problem and then you might try a simple in your regression of multiple integration the many
variables or you might try a polynomial linear regression and see what happens and sometimes the polynomial
regressions do work better.
For example they're used to describe how diseases spread or pandemics and epidemics spread across territory
or across population polynomial regressions can be handy there and they also have other use cases so
it's a matter of what works best so it's always good to have more tools in your arsenal.
And we have one final question left.
The question is why is it cold lean years still.
Right.
So we saw those different powers squared cubes of power and and so on.
Why is this so called new year and I'll show you what I mean.
If you look on the left here it says polynomial linear regression.
So why is it still called a linear regression if it's a polynomial regression.
Well the trick here is that when we're talking about linear and nonlinear we're not actually talking
about the X variables.
Right so even though they're nonlinear here the relationship between Y and X is non-linear.
When you're talking about the class of a regression you're talking.
So whether it is linear or non-linear.
You're talking about the coefficients here.
So that's the interesting part so whether or not this function which we have here so why is a function
of x Right.
And so the question is can this function be expressed as a linear combination of these coefficients
that because ultimately they are the unknowns right.
So your goal when you're building is to find these coefficients find out their actual values so that
then further down the track you can use those coefficients to then plug in X and predict y whether it's
a linear wasing a simple linear multiple linear regression or pull nominal integration that's a goal
to find these beco efficient.
And that's why linear non linear refers to the coefficients.
So an example of a non linear regression would be if the equation was y equals zero plus the 1 X1 divided
by B 2 plus x 2 or something or a B 0 divided by B one plus X Y and so a situation where you really
cannot replace the coefficients with other coefficients to turn the equation into a linear one.
In regards to the coefficients not that x values.
So there you go that's why I pull normal regression is still called a linear regression.
That's a fun fact for the day maybe you can show off to your colleagues and also because of that the
polynomial linear regression is actually a special case of the multiple linear regression.
So that just something to also kind of note that this is a version of the multiple Denia regression
rather than a standalone absolutely new type of regression.
So I hope you enjoyed today's tutorial and I look forward to seeing you next time.
Until then in Germany in learning